#The Interoperability Ring

The task of creating a generalization of all possible forms of interconnectedness is no trivial matter, it is a significant portion of the work of software developers to convert between different models of io. Whether it be standard io, network protocols or some internal event system, the different types, modes and encodings make this an endless chore. By creating a general format you are at once arguably making the problem worse, simply adding in more complexity and borders to mediate. However within a Jungle System, even those spanning many hosts these difficulties along the border will disappear, freeing developers to work with freedom to chop and change components on the fly without breaking the consistency of the system. The difficulty of converting IO is no longer the task of the application developer but of the framework extender, and those frontiers into the jungle space are shared among the global community. Of course you might say that any programming language exposes the ability to normalise IO, and that it is neccessarily needing transformation to interact with the existing data, jungle cannot remove all translations, but it does allow translations and connection strategies to be abstracted. This is a paradigm shift in the approach to programming which usually centers around abstractions of data and process patterns. You may argue that an interconnection strategy is covered by those aspects since they are the basis of computation, to be convinced otherwise one must step back, stop focusing on objects, and realize that relationships occur in a context that is indifferent to the presence of it's members, it is a space driven by laws that are immutable within the scope. Our understanding of the real world is not merely semantic bindings to familiar and abstract objects and quantifications of their representation and structure. There is also the understanding of the effect their presence has on the context, that is the essence of relationship. The intention of Jungle is to create a model of computation that manifests this conception of a context of interaction. To do so there are a number of new primatives that form a kind of ring each having a relationship to its adjacent compatriate. They are named with respect to a biological entity and generally have correspondance to a geometric primative for easy visualisation.

[Cell (Volume)](cell.md): These are the objects that we are present within a space and also those that contain a space, it is at this point that the ring is closed. They encapsulate a kind of engine that presents the interface to the world and implements some strategy to perceive and react to the activities of the context.

[Membrane(Surface)](membrane.md): The object that lies between the inside and outside, each cell has a bilayer membrane(much like a biological cell)  the lining on the inside and shell on the outside. It is the shell that is the surface visible to the rest of the world. 

[Contact (Point)](contact.md): The points of contact with the outside are sensibly called as such. Imagined as dots on the surface. They are the way data gets in and out of a cell, there are many types of contact, and new types can be created, allowing variation to the methods of attachment they represent.

[Medium (Lines)](medium.md): A medium is a connection strategy, at a basic level it is a matrix of links and the means to decide what links are valid and how to create links in a given context. There can be many media for any one kind of contact and also many contact types can be given to a medium, this is because by default media check the inheritance of the contacts with which they deal, allowing them to deal with abstract categories of contact.

[Mesh (Laws)](mesh.md) : This is the system that is constructed within the cell, which declares the strategy to decide which links will be supposed to what media, managing the multiplicity of media and rules, while imposing the appropriate constraints to the creation. 

The mesh and medium are the least variable elements, with the immutable aspects of cell they from the supportive triangle of the model, and the Contacts and Media are variable to capture the specific nature of a kind of connectedness, a contact facilitates the transmittance over the boundary to the cell that is the membrane, and the medium facilitates the transmittance through a space that contains many interacting entities. The consistent elements are what creates the unified language for interconnection, we are then able to create abstractions on these variations to create the patterns that are most appropriate to our domain. 